Now, we will introduce you to Spark MLlib.
After this video, you will be
able to describe what MLlib is,
list the main categories of
techniques available in MLlib,
and explain code segments
containing MLlib algorithms.
MLlib is a scalable machine learning
library that runs on top of Spark Core.
It provides distributed implementations
of commonly used machine learning
algorithms and utilities.
As with Spark Core, MLlib has APIs for
Scala, Java, Python, and R.
MLlib offers many algorithms and
techniques commonly used in
a machine learning process.
The main categories are machine learning,
statistics and some common utility
tools for common techniques.
As the name suggests,
many machine learning algorithms
are available in MLlib.
These are algorithms to build models for
classification, regression, and
clustering.
There are also techniques for
evaluating the resulting models.
For example,
you can compute the values for
a receiver of creating characteristic
that we call an ROC curve.
A common statistical technique for
plotting the performance
of a binary classifier.
Statistical functions
are also provided in MLlib.
Examples are summary statistics,
means, standard deviation, etc.
Correlations and
methods to sample a dataset.
MLlib also has techniques commonly
used in the machine learning process,
such as dimensionality reduction and
feature transformation methods for
preprocessing the data.
In short, Spark MLlib offers
many techniques often used in
a machine learning pipeline.
Let's take a look at an example to
compute summary statistics using MLlib.
Note that we will use the spark pipe
of API similar to the ones used for
our other examples in this course.
Here is the code segment to
compute summary statistics for
a data set consisting
of columns of numbers.
Lines of code are in white, and
the comments are in orange.
The first line imports statistics
functions from the stat module.
The second line creates an RDD
of Vectors with the data.
You can think of each vector
as a column in a data matrix.
The next line denoted with three invokes
the column stats function to compute
summary statistics for each column.
The last three lines show
by four print out the mean,
variance and number of non-zero
entries for each column.
As you can see from this example,
computing the summary statistics for
a data set is very
straightforward using a MLlib.
Here is another example.
Although we will go through the ratio
learning details in our next course,
here we give you a hint of how to
use two ratio learning techniques.
One for Classification,
and one for Clustering.
This code segment, shows the six steps to
build a DecisionTree for classification.
The first line imports
the DecisionTree module,
the second line imports MLUtils module,
the next line fails the DecisionTree
to classify the data for two classes.
Then, the model is printed out and
finally the model is saved in a file.
Here is another MLlib example,
this time for clustering.
This code segment shows the 5-step
code to build a k-means clustering.
The first line imports the k-means module,
the second line
imports an array module from numpy,
the next two lines read in the data and
parses it using space as the limiter,
then the k-means model
is built by dividing the parsedData
into three clusters.
Finally, the cluster centers
are printed out for each.
In summary,
MLlib is Spark's machine learning library.
It provides algorithms and
techniques that are implemented
using distributors processing.
The main categories of algorithms and
techniques available in machine
learning library are machine learning,
statistics and utility functions for
the machine learning process.